---
layout: post
title: First Day in Bloc.
---
I am finally starting Bloc today.  A lot of thinking lead to my decision to both do a coding bootcamp and specifically to choose Bloc.  I had been looking for a job in GIS (Geographic Information Systems) for a while unsuccessfully.  I figured a primary reason why I was being unsuccessful in my job search was my lack of coding skills since I had both professional and academic experience using GIS.  Ironically, it was receiving a job offer in GIS that finally lead to me choosing to stay in Chicago and start a coding bootcamp.  The job offer I received was a solid offer from a company in Bismarck, North Dakota at which point I had to choose, do I want to leave my family again and move to a new city again, or should I stay.  After much soul searching and my parents and dog making their preference that I stay very clear I chose to stay.  After that I decided to take a coding bootcamp to increase my employability, so I could find a solid job in Chicago, but the question was which one.

As I started looking at coding bootcamps I came up with three important factors.  
1. How many hours a week does the bootcamp require?  There are other things that are important to me such as continuing my training in Brazilian Jujitsu, doing things with my family and friends, and working on the side.  If a bootcamp took too much time it would force me to sacrifice things I did not wish to sacrifice.
2. How long does the bootcamp last?  I wanted to start working a regular job to the career section of my life.  A bootcamp that takes over a year to complete would delay the start of my career longer than I wanted.
3. Does the bootcamp come with a job guarantee.  Coding bootcamps are expensive.  Since I am taking one to increase my employability I will recoup the costs when I receive a job upon completion of the bootcamp.  Though I know every legit coding bootcamp has high success rates for their former students finding employment, I did not want to risk finding myself in the minority of bootcamp students who spend money on a coding bootcamp, but cannot find employment afterwards.  

Bloc's Part-time Web Developer track filled all my conditions.  Twenty hours a week is few enough that it allows me time to do the other things that are important to me, while not falling behind in my course work.  Twenty-seven weeks is a short enough time frame that it will not delay the start of my career too long.  Bloc's job guarantee or tuition refund gave me confidence that I would be able to find work in Chicago after completion of the program and if in the unlikely event that I could not find a job, I would not be out any money.  Of course, I want a job, not my money back.  

I met my mentor today.  His name is Aaron and he is new to Bloc too.  I hope we can work well together and my decision to join Bloc is the correct one.   
